# A Handbook for the Lazy

---

by Lorenzo Rovigatti

Introduction
============

I am a computational physicist and I spend most of the day in front of a
computer. I consider myself quite the lazy person, and I find many of
the daily tasks that are associated with my job to be extremely boring
and repetitive. During the course of the years I have developed my own
way of dealing with these chores.

These notes contain many tricks of the trade I routinely use during my
everyday job to make my life easier and, which is of the outmost
importance for me, less boring. I am sure many of the solutions I have
found to cope with these common issues can be solved in multiple ways. I
am equally sure that many of the solutions I overlooked are plain better
than the paths I chose to take. If you find that this is the case, feel
free to drop me a line at <lorenzo.rovigatti@gmail.com> or to add your
own solution to the book and create a pull request!

How to use this book
--------------------

The book is written in
[Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) and translated to
HTML using [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/).

The `tricks.md` and `tricks.html` files contain the entirety of the book
in Markdown and HTML format, respectively.

If you want to change the content of the book just edit one or more
chapter files and then, if you have Bash and Pandoc installed on your
system (and the Pandoc executable is in your path) compile the book from
the source by running the `compile.sh` script. This will generate the
`tricks.md`, `tricks.html` and `README.md` files.

This is not a book to be read in one take. On the contrary, it should be
considered as a collection of tips & tricks to be referred to when the
need arises.

I plan to add as many figures and examples as possible. These will be
included in the source of the book.

[![License: CC BY
4.0](https://licensebuttons.net/l/by/4.0/80x15.png)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

------------------------------------------------------------------------
